---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### Cruz. Candidate. Confusion.

*This piece is about open-data contributions and community guidelines; the author is not concerned with the politics itself*

A stunning article went up on Quartz about a candidate for the New York state assembly on the 18th of August. [The article] lists the efforts of Erika Herzog (aka *BrillLyle*) to provide a disambiguation page that would prevent future confusion with a popular porn-star by the same name as the state assembly candidate -- **Catalina Cruz**. Herzog's attempts to create a disambiguation page was turned down by one of the Wikipedia editors who flagged it for removal based on grounds of notability.

The crux of Herzog's argument -- who has a spotty record of violating community regulations -- is that the candidate Cruz is considered notable according to [Wikipedia's definition] of notability. To that effect, she provides about 30 third-party citations of media outlets where candidate Cruz has been covered and as of the article's publishing, that number has risen to 50. The *Colombia Wikimedia Chapter* subsequently contended that she has enough coverage in Spanish-language sources that meet the notability criterion of being recognized in the public eye. Herzog, understandbly so, makes the accusation that the Wikipedia editor was biased against Spanish-language publications -- which makes up most of the citations she provides. The editors, however, disagreed vehemently. Moreover, the article [discussion] reveals that there are users who comment on Cruz only being mentioned "in passing" in those sources which is not enough to meet the notability criterion.

Regardless of the Cruz situation, what cannot be disputed is that Herzog is the least desirable person to have advocated it; her community guidelines violations only work against the article and bring hostility which may not have been there if it was another user -- she admits this herself. The definition of notability has been reasonably developed by the volunteers and their standing tradition; however, *I* believe that there should be room for exceptions in cases such as this one. Herzog's permanent ban from contributing to Wikipedia, *I* believe, was inevitable due to her previous history of toxic discourse. It follows that her contributions to the site would also warrant an *unsympathetic* review, nipping all hopes of an exception in the bud.

Whether or not Catalina Cruz, **the candidate**, finds her face on the largest online encyclopedia, one must observe -- with dismay -- that there is a chance that *valid* contributions could be rejected on the basis of **who** made it in these communities. Separation between contribution and stigma surrounding the contributor is a utopian vision whilst contributing to open data/source resources remains both a behavioural and a technical undertaking. 

Herzog's article can be found [here]


[The article]: https://qz.com/1352568/running-for-office-is-hard-when-you-have-a-porn-stars-name-this-makes-it-worse/
[Wikipedia's definition]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Notability
[here]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:BrillLyle/Catalina_Cruz_(politician)
[discussion]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Articles_for_deletion/Catalina_Cruz_(politician)
