---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

### Collaborative Editing
This particular task has been exhausting. I quickly realized how terrible I am when it comes to following instructions. Will this jeopardize my fervent wish to contribute to open source in the future? *Je ne sais pas*. Regardless, there is no going back now. 

#### My contributions
I made my allotted changes to [Francis] and [Jimmyzs]'s repositories. I sifted through all the grammar and tried my best to fix certain sentence structures. My experience as a grammar elitist may have come in handy during this but I tried my best to be cordial when making suggestions. However, my untrained eyes have, undoubtedly, skipped an error here and there. I made multiple commits and submitted a pull request to each of their repositories after adding them and pushing them on to **my fork**. 

#### Accepting incoming changes
Trouble came in the form of accepting the changes Francis and Jimmy made to my own repository. They maintained the same workflow I did and diligently so. As I quickly figured out, accepting incoming changes is harder (at least, at this point) than sending changes. My respect for repository maintainers grew linearly as I spent hours trying to fix an accidental merge from Jimmy. See, the instruction was to accept the incoming changes to a **new** branch instead of merging them into `master`. After realizing what I had done, I quickly reverted the change using a [revert commit] only to realize that once a pull request is accepted, it is banished into the nether forever and I would not be able to create a new branch with the pull request again, since it has been closed. I could, however, easily set up a new branch that would point to the merge commit and branch out from `master` but that felt like superfluous workflow and I *reverted* the revert commit and created a [new commit]. Equipped with this experience, I accordingly took Francis's [pull request] into account... or did I? I found out that Francis had already deleted his fork of my repo and the commits were now simply **dangling** changes, reminiscent of great contributions from him. With a heavy heart, I deleted the temporary branch and sighed at my failure to follow instructions.

#### Redemption
Chance came in the form of a similar assignment. Stay tuned.

***Note:*** *All the workflow is a direct result of this assignment from Stewart Weiss.*


[Francis]: https://github.com/hunter-college-cs-ossd/FrancisXIrizarry-weekly
[Jimmyzs]: https://github.com/hunter-college-cs-ossd/Jimmyzs-weekly
